# com.redhat.viaq-ci template

The template file com.redhat.viaq.template.json is automatically generated. Please _do not edit_** the file directly.

In order to edit the template please modify fields.yml and skeleton.json files.

To rebuild the template, run:
> make clean && make

For details about the mapping please see [ElasticSearch reference](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/indices-templates.html)

## skeleton.json

This file contains the skeleton of the template without the mappings section.

by sections:  
* `aliases`: Aliases for the indices produces from the template. Aliases will be automatically generated along with the indices in future.  
* `mappings`: mappings section  
  * `_default_`: default mapping section. It is the only mapping present in the skeleton, other mappings from [fields.yml](fields.yml) will be autogenerated from the copy of this section.  
    * `date_detection`: we force no date detection in the unknown fields.  
    * `dynamic_templates`: describes the mapping for autocreated fields.  
    * `properties`: empty section that is populated with the content from [fields.yml](fields.yml)  
* `order`: order of the template. lower order templates are applied first.  
* `settings`: various settings  
* `template`: indices that will be matched by this template  

## fields.yml
This is the file that contains all the mapping information.  
- `version`: version of the **com.redhat.viaq-ci** template. 
- `defaults`: default values. if a particular field is missing a parameter it'll be taken from the default values  
- `_default_`: description of the fields used to populate `mappings -> _default_` in the generated template.  
- `jenkins_data`: special mapping for the data from Jenkins CI server. inherits all the fields from _default_  
- `doc_sections`: used in the generation of the documentation to name the sections.  

## Template version
Template version uniquely identifies the version of the mapping. Please make sure to update the version if you update the mapping.
Normalizers ingesting data in the indices created from this template __must be aware of the version of the template__.  

## Index Aliases (TODO)
Index names will eventually depend on the template version, so normalizer not knowing the version won't know where to add the data.  
Index Aliases will be used as user friendly identifiers that don't depend on template version. Index aliases will be used by all ElasticSearch clients.

